Document creating locale switcher (#5309)
sonata-project/SonataAdminBundle: docs/cookbook/recipe_creating_a_locale_switcher.rst

Creating a locale switcher
==========================

This is a full working example of creating a locale switcher.

.. note::
    This article assumes you are using Symfony 4, Flex, and autowiring.

Prerequisites
-------------

Install the following Sonata dependencies:

* `Sonata Intl Bundle`_

Create a ``LocaleSubscriber`` and a ``UserLocaleSubscriber`` class as explained `here`_.

.. note::

>     The ``SonataIntlBundle`` bundle is optional, but will allow the list of locales to be shown as a list of languages.

Author: Done in last commit, thanks for advise.

Handle locale switch
--------------------

Create a controller to handle locale switch in ``src/Controller/LocaleController.php``:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    namespace App\Controller;

    use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\AbstractController;
    use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\RedirectResponse;

    final class LocaleController
    {
        /**

>         * @Route("/locale/{locale}", name="locale")

Author: I dont know, it was my first approach but why to prevent use from frontend?

                                <div class="row">
                                    <ul class="dropdown-menu">
                                        <li role="presentation" class="dropdown-header">
                                            <i class="fa fa-language"></i>
                                            {{ 'languages_title'|trans({}, 'SonataAdminBundle') }}
                                        </li>
                                        {% for locale in available_locales|split('|') %}
                                        <li role="presentation" class="{{ app.request.locale == locale ? 'active' : '' }}">
                                            <a role="menuitem" tabindex="-1" href="{{ path('locale', {'locale': locale}) }}">{{ locale|language|capitalize }}</a>
                                        </li>
                                        {% endfor %}
                                    </ul>
                                </div>
                            </div>
                        </div>
                    </li>
                {% endblock %}
            </ul>
        </div>
    {% endblock %}

.. note::

>     If you chose not to install ``SonataIntlBundle``, the Twig language helper is not available, and you must replace ``{{ locale|language|capitalize }}`` with just ``{{ locale }}``.

Author: Done in last commit.

Update your config to make it work
----------------------------------

Create the ``available_locales`` twig parameter by adding this to ``config/packages/twig.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    twig:
        ...
        globals:
            available_locales: '%app.locales%'

Make sure ``app.locales`` is defined in ``config/services.yaml``:

.. code-block:: yaml

    parameters:
        ...
        app.locales: en|fr

Done!
-----

> You are done and you probably want to know how this looks like in the admin interface. Well, let's find out by going to http://localhost:8000/admin

Author: Comply with the sf docs standards: done in last commit.

> Also, why the `localhost:8000` part?

I took this part from another [cookbook](https://sonata-project.org/bundles/admin/master/doc/cookbook/recipe_creating_an_admin_with_annotations.html) in the idea to keep consistency. What do you suggest instead?

> You are done and you probably want to know how this looks like in the admin interface. Well, let's find out by going to http://localhost:8000/admin

Reviewer: I suggest removing `http://localhost:8000` completely, leaving only `/admin`

> You are done and you probably want to know how this looks like in the admin interface. Well, let's find out by going to http://localhost:8000/admin

Author: Done in last commit

Creating a locale switcher
==========================

This is a full working example of creating a locale switcher.

.. note::
    This article assumes you are using Symfony 4, Flex, and autowiring.

Prerequisites
-------------

> Install following Sonata dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install the following Sonata dependencies:
```

* `Sonata Easy-Extends Bundle`_
* `Sonata Intl Bundle`_

> Create ``LocaleSubscriber`` and ``UserLocaleSubscriber`` as explained `here`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a ``LocaleSubscriber`` and a ``UserLocaleSubscriber`` class as explained `here`_.
```

.. note::

>     Sonata Intl Bundle is optional, but will allow list of locales to be shown as list of languages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The ``SonataIntlBundle`` bundle is optional, but will allow lists of locales to be shown as lists of languages.
```

Author: Not sure, it's only one list of languages...

Author: Probably because I again forgot "the" and "a", I am too lazy, I think it should be:

> but will allow **the** list of locales to be shown as **a** list of languages.

I will commit your changes and correct like that.

Handle locale switch
--------------------

Create a controller to handle locale switch in ``src/Controller/LocaleController.php``:

.. code-block:: php

    <?php

    namespace App\Controller;

    use Symfony\Bundle\FrameworkBundle\Controller\AbstractController;
    use Symfony\Component\Routing\Annotation\Route;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Request;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\Session\SessionInterface;
    use Symfony\Component\HttpFoundation\RedirectResponse;

>     class LocaleController extends AbstractController

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    final class LocaleController
```

    {
        /**
        * @Route("/locale/{locale}", name="locale")
        */

>         public function index(Request $request, SessionInterface $session, $locale)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        public function index(Request $request, SessionInterface $session, string $locale): RedirectResponse
```

>         public function index(Request $request, SessionInterface $session, $locale)

Reviewer 2: Is session really needed as a dependency here? Can't you do `$request->getSession()`?

Author: Nope, removed in last commit. Thanks for your advise.

        {
            $session->set('_locale', $locale);

>             $referer = $request->headers->get('referer');

Reviewer: Leave a blank line before the return statement:
```suggestion

```

>             return new RedirectResponse($referer ?: '/');

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            return new RedirectResponse($request->headers->get('referer', '/'));
```

        }
    }

> Extend SonataAdminBundle

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Extend ``SonataAdminBundle``
```

> ------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----------------------------
```

Open a command console, enter your project directory and execute the
following command:

.. code-block:: bash

>     $ bin/console sonata:easy-extends:generate SonataAdminBundle --dest=src --namespace_prefix=App

Reviewer 2: I think this part is not really needed, you can just create a template in your own directory.

Author: OK, so it means using EasyExtends is not recommended with sf4?

Reviewer 2: not really, most of sonata packages have flex recipes, also in this case I think easy extends is not really needed and you can create that template in your own directory

Author: Thanks for your advise, I removed use of easy extends in last commit.
Before to resolve, could you tell me in few words in wich case it makes sense to use easy extends with sf4 ?

Author: @kunicmarko20 If you succeed to make me understand the purpose of easy extends bundle, I promess to create a PR on easyextends bundle documentation ;)

Author: So doc of bundles listed on https://github.com/symfony/recipes-contrib/tree/master/sonata-project should be updated to tell people not to use easy-extends?

Author: @kunicmarko20 so if I understand correctly, with classification bundle by exemple, as a recipe exist it would be nice to create a PR on doc that simply replace installation process by `composer require sonata-project/classification-bundle`, or maybe to split installation chapter between automatic and manual ? Is it so simple?

> Add this to ``config/bundles.php``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register the bundle in the kernel of your application:
```

.. code-block:: php

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

// config/bundles.php
```

    return [
        ...
        App\Application\Sonata\AdminBundle\ApplicationSonataAdminBundle::class => ['all' => true],
    ];

> Override standard layout

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Override the standard layout
```

>         App\Application\Sonata\AdminBundle\ApplicationSonataAdminBundle::class => ['all' => true],

Author: Seems no, I will update.

> Why do you use docs for a feature? Can you provide an implementation instead or create a separate bundle for it.

Isn't it a very small functionnality for a bundle? About implementation I don't know, I am very new to Sonata and Symfony, but it could be very good exercise...

>         App\Application\Sonata\AdminBundle\ApplicationSonataAdminBundle::class => ['all' => true],

Reviewer 2: If you drop easy admin part of the docs, you don't need this anymore

>         App\Application\Sonata\AdminBundle\ApplicationSonataAdminBundle::class => ['all' => true],

Author: True, already done in last commit.

>         App\Application\Sonata\AdminBundle\ApplicationSonataAdminBundle::class => ['all' => true],

Author: Any opinion about Bundle or implementation?

> ------------------------

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----------------------------
```

                                <div class="row">
                                    <ul class="dropdown-menu">
                                        <li role="presentation" class="dropdown-header">
                                            <i class="fa fa-language"></i>
                                            {{ 'languages_title'|trans({}, 'SonataAdminBundle') }}
                                        </li>
                                        {% for locale in available_locales|split('|') %}
                                        <li role="presentation" class="{{ app.request.locale == locale ? 'active' : '' }}">
                                            <a role="menuitem" tabindex="-1" href="{{ path('locale', {'locale': locale}) }}">{{ locale|language|capitalize }}</a>
                                        </li>
                                        {% endfor %}
                                    </ul>
                                </div>
                            </div>
                        </div>
                    </li>
                {% endblock %}
            </ul>
        </div>
    {% endblock %}

.. note::

>     If you choosed not to install Sonata Intl Bundle, twig language helper is not available, and you must replace ``{{ locale|language|capitalize }}`` by ``{{ locale }}``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you chose not to install ``SonataIntlBundle``, the Twig language helper is not available, and you must replace ``{{ locale|language|capitalize }}`` with just ``{{ locale }}``.
```
